>> Nina Zakharenko: Just a reminder, this
is what our final exercise looks like.
We can select different languages here,
and then go and
hit the,
>> Nina Zakharenko: GitHub search API and
display the results.
Pretty straightforward Flask app,
we're not using a database here,
we're not really maintaining any state.
We're just checking what the user
checked and unchecked at each request.
Pretty easy peasy.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Now,
let's go through how to implement this.
>> Nina Zakharenko: I'm gonna exit out of
the development server that I was using,
and I'm gonna run a command
called tree that's going
to list the directory structure for
this chapter.
If you're on Mac OS just know that,
>> Nina Zakharenko: Know
that this utility doesn't come with Mac,
you have to install it.
So at the root, we have api.py.
I have exceptions.py where
I put my custom exception.
I have models.py,
>> Nina Zakharenko: Where I
put the model that stores
my GitHub repository.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Then I have
a static folder with a favicon for
my website,
CSS styles that I've provided for you.
Please don't get the pitchfoks
out if my CSS isn't good.
I'm one of those full stack developers.
And then, we have a few templates.
We have a template for
an error page and a template for
our index page,
as well as some texts that we can run.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Let's go through and
look at these files.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Our exceptions.py
file is pretty straightforward.
>> Nina Zakharenko: I have a class here,
and like you saw before,
it inherits from Exception.
>> Nina Zakharenko: In the constructor
I'm taking a status code, and
if the status code was 403 it's
gonna say Rate limited reached.
If the status code was any other type of
error status code it's just gonna print
that out.
And then I pass this new modified message
that I created to our super()._init.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Looking at the models
file, we live coded this earlier.
This class, the GithubRepo class, is used
to represent a single GitHub repository.
So in my constructor I take the name,
the language, the number of stars, and
I also return a handy string
representation in the __repr__.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Now,
looking at api.py, this is where I put my
create_query and
my repos_with_most_stars methods.
And remember that we wrote methods
that look almost exactly like
this in the intro to
Python final exercise.
Going through these, for
creating a query I take
a list of languages in
the minimum amount of stars.
In yesterday's code we were
looping over each query,
adding it on to the string
using concatenate,
using this string join
is much more efficient.
String concatenation is a pretty
inefficient operation, and
using string join is much faster.
So now we can make that same
query using an f string,
for language,
going through each language and
languages, stripping out any trailing or
leading white space.
And then creating our new query
with just one concatenation, and
concatenating the minimum number
of stars that we'd like to see.
Now in the repos with most stars method,
we get our query by using
that create query method.
We have the same parameters.
I've printed them out here, but
you don't need to do that in your code.
I get the response by
using the request library.
To get the resource at this
GitHub api search URL,
passing in the parameters I set up.
Now, if the status code was not 200,
that means if anything went wrong,
I'm just gonna raise instance
of my GitHub API exception,
passing in the response.status_code.
Next, I get the JSON from the response.
I get the items at the Items key,
and I'm just gonna use
a list comprehension to return
an instance of my GitHub repo.
A list of instances of
my GitHub repo class,
passing in the name, the language,
and the star gazers count.
And using a list comprehension to
do that for each item in items.
Notice there is no main method here.
We're not running our
code in the same file.
Instead we're gonna be using this
as a library from our Flask app.
Scrolling to the top,
notice that we imported requests so
that we can use it as
an available library.
We're also importing a few things
from our own custom classes, so
our GitHubApiException and
our GitHubRepo model.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Okay,
those are all the building blocks.
Now, open up .py and
see how it all gets put together.
For you Windows folks, I'm going to
put in additional instructions here,
just so you have them in one
place with the final exercise.
>> Nina Zakharenko: But
we have a few imports here as well.
We're importing a few things from Flask,
we're importing the Flask class,
we're importing render_template, and we're
also importing something called request,
which gives us information about the
request that we are currently processing.
From my API I'm also importing
this repos_with_most_stars method,
and I'm importing my GitHubApiException so
that I can catch it, do something with it.
>> Nina Zakharenko: And
creating a new app, a new Flask app here.
By passing in under name.
And then I'm making a list of available
languages that I want my users of
my web application to
be able to choose from.
>> Nina Zakharenko: And
I have an index method here.
If you've noticed here at the top,
my app.route takes a list
of methods that it accepts.
So if I tried to call this route
with a method that is not accepted,
like put,
my server's just gonna throw an error.
Now, if the requested method was GET,
meaning we haven't submitted anything yet,
we're not hitting that Submit button.
I'm just gonna set
the selected_languages to all of
the available_languages by default.
If the method was 'POST' instead,
I'm gonna use
that request variable that
I imported from Flask.
That variable has a form which is attached
to,
>> Nina Zakharenko: The form that I've
used to submit to this endpoint.
And there's a helper method
on this called getlist,
and this tells me which form
I would like to look at.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Now, I get my results
from the repos_with_most_stars method just
like I did in my Introduction
to Python final exercise.
This time, instead of passing
in all of the languages,
I'm just gonna pass in the ones
that the user selected.
Next, I'm gonna render my template so
the first argument to render template
is index.HTML, we'll take a look
at that template in just a second.
I'm also passing in which languages were
selected, so that when the page reloads,
the languages that we had
checked off stay checked off.
And I'm passing in that list of
all the available languages so
that the check boxes know
whether they're selected or
not and to display the check on or off.
And lastly, I'm just passing in one
additional variable to the template,
and that's our list of results which
contain those instances of GitHub repo.
There's one last thing
that happens down here.
I'm using another decorator.
This one is called app.airhandler.
And to this decorator I can
pass in an exception type, and
just provide a single method that will
run if this class of exception occurs.
>> Nina Zakharenko: And here I'm gonna
render a different type of template,
error.html.
And the message is just gonna be
the string representation of the error.
Let's take a look at
what's in these templates.
First, I'm going to open error.html
from my final exercise files,
and we'll see that I
linked to a stylesheet.
I have a div here.
But really the most important
bit is I'm just gonna
display the message that got passed in.
>> Nina Zakharenko: One second,
let me close some of these files.
>> Nina Zakharenko: And
I'm gonna open my app.py.
Oops, that's not what I wanted.
Sorry, one second, app.py is right here.
And I'm gonna open my,
>> Nina Zakharenko: error.html file.
Okay, let me see if I can display these
side by side with my current font size.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Okay, so
here I'm returning render_template,
I'm passing in the message which
is the exception that was thrown,
and here in my template I'm
looking at that message and
with these curly brace printing it out.
Okay, now I'm gonna open
index.html from the,
>> Nina Zakharenko: Final Exercise
Templates directory.
And we'll see I have a title here,
but the body is pretty strong.
Or, the body of this is pretty short,
pretty brief, pretty easy to read.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So
here is the form action that I'm taking.
I'm using this built-in that's
available in templates.
And I'm asking for the URL for
this index,
>> Nina Zakharenko: Method
that I've created right here.
So I don't have to do any
weird things with paths,
and I'm specifying my form
that the method is POST.
Now you'll remember that
here in my index method,
I'm rendering a template and I'm passing
in a few things to this template.
The selected languages,
the available languages and the results.
So, I'm gonna loop through each
language in my available languages.
And I'm gonna do, I'm gonna set the value
to the language for that checkbox so
that when I submit this form I have
that language available to me.
And then I'm gonna return checked.
I'm gonna insert here checked if
the languages in the selected languages.
Otherwise, the check box
is going to be unchecked.
And finally, I'm gonna print
out the label for the language.
That generates this section right here.
Lastly, I just have a Submit button.
Remember that for
templates I'm gonna have to end this for
statement, because just like HTML there's
an opening tag and a closing tag.
Okay, now I'm gonna print out my
popular GitHub repos by stars.
And all I'm doing here, again,
I passed in results to my template.
If there are no results,
I don't wanna bother rendering the table,
it's gonna look ugly.
So instead,
I'm just gonna print out No Results.
Otherwise, I'm going to
print out the table header.
Now I'm gonna loop through
every result in my results.
And for
table data I'll pull the result name,
result language, and
result.num*, and that's it.
This is a 60-line index.html file.
And that's all that we need to
generate this functional website.
>> Nina Zakharenko: This is the kind
of project that you can easily do in
an afternoon.
One more thing I wanted to show you,
I wrote a few simple unit
tests,
>> Nina Zakharenko: For my application.
I also wrote a few unit tests for
this simple application,
those tests are included in the repo.
So if you'd like,
take a look at those and run them and
let's make sure our app works.